samples: nrf9160: add ciphersuites sample (#7474)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/nrf9160/ciphersuites/README.rst

.. _ciphersuites:

> nRF9160: TLS Ciphersuites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF9160: TLS ciphersuites
```

.. include:: /includes/spm.txt

Overview
********

The sample first initializes the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem` and AT communications.
Next, it provisions a root CA certificate to the modem using the :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library.
Provisioning must be done before connecting to the LTE network because the certificates can only be provisioned when the device is not connected.

The sample then iterates through a list of TLS ciphersuites, attempting connection to the host with each one of them.
The sample connects successfully to the host (``www.example.com``) with the ciphersuites that are supported by the host, while unsupported ciphersuites cause a connection failure, setting ``errno`` to ``95``.

Finally, the sample provides a summary of the ciphersuites that are supported and not supported by the host, ``example.com``.

Obtaining a certificate
=======================

The sample connects to ``www.example.com``, which requires an X.509 certificate.
This certificate is provided in the :file:`samples/nrf9160/https_client/cert` folder.

To connect to other servers, you might need to provision a different certificate.
See :ref:`cert_dwload` for more information.

> 

Reviewer: Add a config section for EXTENDED_CIPHERSUITE_LIST like following:
```suggestion

Configuration
**************

|config|

Configuration options
==============

Check and configure the following Kconfig options:

.. _EXTENDED_CIPHERSUITE_LIST

EXTENDED_CIPHERSUITE_LIST
   The sample configuration extends the cipersuite list with extra ciphersuites that are only supported by modem firmware v1.3.x, where x is greater than or equal to 1 and modem firmware v1.2.x, where x is greater than or equal to 7.
```

   trying ciphersuite: TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
   connecting to example.com... Connected.
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
   connecting to example.com... Connected.
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_EMPTY_RENEGOTIATIONINFO_SCSV
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket

   Ciphersuite support summary for host `example.com`:
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA: No

>    TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA: Supported

Reviewer 2: Would it make more sense to have `Yes` / `No` or `Supported` / `Not supported` instead of `Supported` / `No`?

Author: @eivindj-nordic I thought about that while working on it, and the reason for the current implementation is that it's more immediate to see which ones are supported. For example, `supported` and `not supported` look too similar and since the strings are not aligned in a tabular fashion it would be less immediate. Same with `no` and `yes`.

.. _ciphersuites:

> nRF9160: TLS Ciphersuites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nRF9160: TLS Cipher suites
```

##########################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The TLS Ciphersuites sample demonstrates a minimal implementation of a client application that attempts to connect
to a host by trying different TLS ciphersuites. This sample will show that some ciphersuites are supported by the host, while others

> aren't, finally providing a summary of the support.

Author: @divipillai No, the official RFC calls them `ciphersuites` https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc4279

> aren't, finally providing a summary of the support.

Reviewer: Thanks, I have updated my comments accordingly.

> aren't, finally providing a summary of the support.

Reviewer 3: Suggestion for the second sentence: This sample shows the cipher suites and lists them as supported or not supported by the host, and provides a summary of the support.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kit:

> .. table-from-rows:: /includes/sample_board_rows.txt
>    :header: heading
>    :rows: nrf9160dk_nrf9160_ns

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. table-from-sample-yaml::
```

.. include:: /includes/spm.txt

Overview
********

The sample first initializes the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem` and AT communications.
Next, it provisions a root CA certificate to the modem using the :ref:`modem_key_mgmt` library.
Provisioning must be done before connecting to the LTE network, because the certificates can only be provisioned when the device is not connected.

> The sample then iterates through a list of TLS ciphersuites, attempting connection to the host with each one of them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample then iterates through a list of TLS cipher suites, attempting connection to the host with each one of them.
```

> Ciphersuites that are supported by the host will connect successfully, while unsupported ciphersuites will cause a connection failure, setting ``errno`` to ``95``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cipher suites that are supported by the host connect successfully, while unsupported cipher suites cause a connection failure, setting ``errno`` to ``95``.
```

Reviewer 3: Suggestion: The sample connects successfully to the host (``www.example.com``) with the ciphersuites that are supported by the host, while unsupported ciphersuites causes a connection failure, setting ``errno`` to ``95``.

> Finally, the sample will end with a summary of the ciphersuites supported and unsupported by the host ``example.com``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the sample provides a summary of the cipher suites that the host support and does not support ``example.com``.
```

Reviewer 3: Suggesting to move the sentence in line 146 up here and make it the last sentence in the overview section (after line 35).

Obtaining a certificate
=======================

The sample connects to ``www.example.com``, which requires an X.509 certificate.
This certificate is provided in the :file:`samples/nrf9160/https_client/cert` folder.

To connect to other servers, you might need to provision a different certificate.
See :ref:`cert_dwload` for more information.

Using Mbed TLS and TF-M
***********************

This sample supports using Mbed TLS and Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).

> Instead of offloading the TLS sockets into the modem, you can use the Mbed TLS library from Zephyr.

Reviewer 3: Should we link to https://github.com/zephyrproject-rtos/mbedtls?

Using the Zephyr Mbed TLS, you can still use the offloaded sockets.

> Mbed TLS offers more configuration options than using the offloaded TLS handling.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Mbed TLS offers more configuration options than the options that are available while using the offloaded TLS handling.
```

When using TF-M and Mbed TLS with PSA crypto, all the crypto operations are run on the secure side on the device.

Building and running
********************

> .. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/nrf9160/https_client`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/nrf9160/ciphersuites`
```

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_nrf9160.txt

> To build the sample with Mbed TLS and TF-M, add the following to your west build command:
> 
> .. code-block:: none
> 
>    -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-tfm_mbedtls.conf

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To build the sample with Mbed TLS and TF-M, add ``-DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-tfm_mbedtls.conf `` to your west build command.
```

Testing
=======

> After programming the sample to your development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|test_sample|
```

> 1. Connect the USB cable and power on or reset your nRF9160 DK.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. |connect_kit|
#. |connect_terminal|
```
```

> #. Open a terminal emulator and observe that the sample starts, provisions certificates and connects to the LTE network.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Observe that the sample starts, provisions certificates, and connects to the LTE network.
```

> #. Observe that the sample will iterate through a list of ciphersuites, attempting a connection to ``example.com`` with each one of them, showing either a successful or an unsuccessful connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Observe that the sample iterates through a list of cipher suites, attempting a connection to ``example.com`` with each one of them, showing either a successful or an unsuccessful connection.
```

Sample output
=============

The sample shows the following output:

.. code-block:: console

   ciphersuites sample started
   certificate match
   waiting for network.. OK
   trying all ciphersuites to find which ones are supported...
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384

>    connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket

Reviewer 4: I must say the errno code is quite confusing in such a scenario, it carries no information that there was a problem with the connection. I'm aware though that it's not something to be fixed in this PR.

   trying ciphersuite: TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket
   trying ciphersuite: TLS_EMPTY_RENEGOTIATIONINFO_SCSV
   connecting to example.com... connect() failed, err: 95, Operation not supported on socket

   Ciphersuite support summary for host `example.com`:
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA384: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256: No
   TLS_ECDHE_ECDSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA: No
   TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA: Supported
   TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256: Supported
   TLS_ECDHE_RSA_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA: Supported
   TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_256_CBC_SHA: No
   TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA256: No
   TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CBC_SHA: No
   TLS_PSK_WITH_AES_128_CCM_8: No
   TLS_EMPTY_RENEGOTIATIONINFO_SCSV: No

   finished.

Dependencies
************

This sample uses the following |NCS| libraries:

* :ref:`modem_key_mgmt`
* :ref:`lte_lc_readme`

It uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:

* :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_modem`

In addition, it uses the following sample:

* :ref:`secure_partition_manager`

> This sample also offers a possibility to use the TF-M module that is at :file:`modules/tee/tfm/` in the |NCS| folder structure.

Reviewer 3: Suggesting to move this up and make it part of the overview.
```suggestion
```

> .. _ciphersuites:

Author: @eivindj-nordic Same as above

nRF9160: TLS Cipher Suites

> #####################

Reviewer 5: this is failing the doc build. 
`Warning, treated as error:
/home/runner/work/sdk-nrf/sdk-nrf/ncs/nrf/doc/_build/nrf/src/samples/nrf9160/ciphersuites/README.rst:4:Title underline too short.`

This certificate is provided in the :file:`samples/nrf9160/https_client/cert` folder.

To connect to other servers, you might need to provision a different certificate.
See :ref:`cert_dwload` for more information.

Using Mbed TLS and TF-M
***********************

This sample supports using Mbed TLS and Trusted Firmware-M (TF-M).
Instead of offloading the TLS sockets into the modem, you can use the Mbed TLS library from Zephyr.
Using the Zephyr Mbed TLS, you can still use the offloaded sockets.
Mbed TLS offers more configuration options than using the offloaded TLS handling.

When using TF-M and Mbed TLS with PSA crypto, all the crypto operations are run on the secure side on the device.

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/nrf9160/https_client`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run_nrf9160.txt

To build the sample with Mbed TLS and TF-M, add the following to your west build command:

.. code-block:: none

   -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=overlay-tfm_mbedtls.conf

Testing
=======

After programming the sample to your development kit, test it by performing the following steps:

1. Connect the USB cable and power on or reset your nRF9160 DK.

> #. Open a terminal emulator and observe that the sample starts, provisions certificates, connects to the LTE network and to example.com, and then sends an HTTP HEAD request.

Author: @eivindj-nordic This should be removed

> #. Observe that the HTTP HEAD request returns ``HTTP/1.1 200 OK``.

Author: @eivindj-nordic This should be removed
